Readme file for libgrowl
=====
This libgrowl is implemented in C program, there is another libgrowl implemented with java.

How to compile
=====
This program can be compiled in most unix platform including macOS. Working with Growl for Windows 2.0.9, growl-for-linux.

So far only tested on Linux and macOS. 

macOS
-----
There are 2+1 ways to compile on macOS

1. using the common unix make command:  
$ make  
_or_  
$ make -f Makefile.unix

2. use xcodebuild

```
$ xcodebuild
⇒ build/Release/libgrowl.a
$ xcodebuild -alltargets  
⇒ build/Release/libgrowl.a  
⇒ build/Release/growlnotify  
```  

3. use Xcode editor  
Open libgrowl.xcodeproj file.

How to test growlnotify program
-----

```
$ growlnotify
⇒ send 'Hello, libgrowl'

To debug:
$ growlnotify -v (or -vv for more information)
```

How to compile (using automake)
=====
$ ./configure 
$ make
$ make check  # for cmocka tests

There might be few issues with automake.

configure script not found
-----
The configure script is generated by the gnu automake tools
```
$ aclocal
$ autoconf
$ automake [--add-missing] [--copy]
``` 

config.guess script not found
-----
config.guess script is to detect the os platform (eg. Linux or macOS). The config.guess can be found in automake. 
```
$ find /usr/share/automake* -name config.guess
```

Even without config.guess, the system will try to guess the os platform with other method. If configure script still fail, can try with manual method.

Linux
```
$ CFLAGS="-D_Linux" ./configure
```


What is Growl?
=====
Growl is a Mac OS notification system, it was created before Mac OS has its own Notification Center. Growl is available for Windows system as well. There are other developers who created growl-for-linux.

Growl is an open source software, it was abandone around end of 2020, the software was removed from App Store.

The lastest version is 2.1.3, the source code can be downloaded from github.


**Note:**  
Growl for Windows 2.0.9 binary can be downloaded from https://github.com/briandunnington/growl-for-windows/releases/tag/final

Development
=====
Xcode
-----
Project format: Xcode-3.2-compatile
Indent: tab

VSCode
-----

Code function comment
-----
Use Doxygen style comment.
Try avoid using // but /* */

Compiler preprocessor?
-----
Specific code the following platform use the following predefine value  
macOS: _Darwin  
POSIX: _POSIX
Linux: _LINUX or _LinuxOS

    $ gcc -D_Darwin -c libgrowl.c

Linux
-----
```
To retrieve platform name from Linux:
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/utsname.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main()
{
	struct utsname name;
	if(uname(&name)) exit(-1);
	printf("Your computer's OS is %s@%s\n", name.sysname, name.release);
	return 0;
}
```
or
```
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc,char *argv[]){    
    FILE* file = popen("uname -s", "r");
    char buffer[100];
    fscanf(file, "%100s", buffer);
    pclose(file);
    printf("buffer is :%s\n", buffer);
    return 0;
}
```
Test: cmocka
-----
Use cmocka as testing framework, as cmocka is simple and lightweight

```
$ brew install cmocka (v1.1.5)

libgrowl $ make test
...
gntp_decode_reply_test
[==========] Running 2 test(s).
[ RUN      ] test_gntp_decode_reply_ok
[       OK ] test_gntp_decode_reply_ok
[ RUN      ] test_gntp_decode_reply_fail
[       OK ] test_gntp_decode_reply_fail
[==========] 2 test(s) run.
[  PASSED  ] 2 test(s).
0 program(s) fail
```

edit the cmocka Makefile, if necessary:

    CMOCKA_LIB_PATH=/usr/local/lib

Read gntp_decode_reply_test.c, check_default_setting_test.c as sample program.
